Add ACEREP #00010 (Medical Rewrite) (#7341)
acemod/ACE3: docs/_posts/2019-12-31-ace3-version3130.md

---
title: ACEREP  &#35;00010
description: Status report on ACE3 version 3.13.0
parent: posts
image: /img/news/191231_medical1.jpg
author: alganthe, mharis001
layout: post
---

> This post marks the release of ACE3 v3.13.0 and, as a result, the public release of the medical rewrite. The previous news post provided perspective on the guiding principles and goals of the medical rewrite. In this post, we will detail the key changes of the rewrite in order to give users a better starting point as they explore ACE3's new medical system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post marks the release of ACE3 v3.13.0 and, as a result, the public release of the medical rewrite. The [previous news post]({{site.baseUrl}}/2019/12/18/medical-rewrite.html) provided perspective on the guiding principles and goals of the medical rewrite. In this post, we will detail the key changes of the rewrite in order to give users a better starting point as they explore ACE3's new medical system.
```

<!--more-->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Medical rewrite was also as the name suggests, a complete rewrite of the medical system. Most of the changes however will not be noticeable by the users, however they provide an improved code base for easier and faster development of the system in the future, opening possibilities for more features.

```
I would add something like that somewhere, doesn't have to be here or in that form.

<div class="row">
    <div class="small-12 columns">
        <img src="{{site.baseUrl}}/img/news/191231_medical1.jpg" alt="A medic treating a wounded soldier while another holds security."/>
    </div>
</div>

### Medical Settings

> Customizability through settings has always been at the heart (no pun intended) of ACE3's medical system. Immediately, users will notice the absence of any differentiation between basic and advanced medical and the removal of some settings. Instead, the settings have been cleaned up and changed to offer granular control over the system, all while keeping it clear exactly what each setting does. The settings are also sorted into more approachable sub-categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customizability through settings has always been at the heart (no pun intended) of ACE3's medical system. Immediately, users will notice the absence of any differentiation between _basic_ and _advanced_ medical and the removal of some settings. Instead, the settings have been cleaned up and changed to offer granular control over the system, all while keeping it clear exactly what each setting does. The settings are also sorted into more approachable sub-categories.
```

> Most of the changes described below can be better controlled and fine tuned (or even disabled) to better suit the needs individual users and communities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the changes described below can be better controlled and fine tuned (or even disabled) to better suit the needs of individual users and communities.
```

Self stitching can now be controlled through a setting (disabled by default).

Similarly, self IV transfusion can also be controlled though a setting (enabled by default). A setting to control the flow rate of IVs was added.

### Items

Atropine has been removed and will be replaced with adenosine if item conversion is not disabled through settings.

As mentioned previously, a splint item was added to serve as the treatment for fractures.

Equipment sharing has been properly implemented and is controllable through its setting. It can either be:

- enabled, and set to use the patient's equipment first.
- enabled, and set to use the medic's equipment first.
- or, disabled completely.

### Other Changes

Medical AI has received several healing logic improvements and should respond more consistently to different situations.

It is faster to treat others than yourself, medics are also faster in performing treatments. Carrying animations have been sped up.

### The End Things

> The [feedback survey](https://forms.gle/5pKeXMJ5hfZYjuxZ6) is still available and we will continue utilize user feedback to balance the new medical system and fix any issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [feedback survey](https://forms.gle/5pKeXMJ5hfZYjuxZ6) is still available and we will continue to utilize user feedback to balance the new medical system and fix any issues with future ACE3 releases.
```

---
title: ACEREP  &#35;00010
description: Status report on ACE3 version 3.13.0
parent: posts
image: /img/news/191231_medical1.jpg
author: alganthe, mharis001
layout: post
---

This post marks the release of ACE3 v3.13.0 and, as a result, the public release of the medical rewrite. The [previous news post]({{site.baseUrl}}/2019/12/18/medical-rewrite.html) provided perspective on the guiding principles and goals of the medical rewrite. In this post, we detail the key changes of the rewrite in order to give users a better starting point as they explore ACE3's new medical system.

<!--more-->

> As the name suggests, the medical rewrite was a complete overhaul of the medical system. The majority of the changes and improvements were made to the code base and as a result will not be noticeable to end users. However, a better code base sets the stage for easier and faster development of the system in the future, opening possibilities for more features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the name suggests, the medical rewrite was a complete overhaul of the medical system. The majority of the changes and improvements were made to the code base and as a result will not be always noticeable to end users. However, a better code base sets the stage for easier and faster development of the system in the future, opening possibilities for more features.
```

Author: Moved the "always" before the "be". Sounds a bit better I think.

<div class="row">
    <div class="small-12 columns">
        <img src="{{site.baseUrl}}/img/news/191231_medical1.jpg" alt="A medic treating a wounded soldier while another holds security."/>
    </div>
</div>

### Medical Settings

Customizability through settings has always been at the heart (no pun intended) of ACE3's medical system. Immediately, users will notice the absence of any differentiation between _basic_ and _advanced_ medical and the removal of some settings. Instead, the settings have been cleaned up and changed to offer granular control over the system, all while keeping it clear exactly what each setting does. The settings are also sorted into more approachable sub-categories.

> Most of the changes described below can be better controlled and fine tuned (or even disabled) to better suit the needs of individual users and communities.

Reviewer 2: maybe replace one usage of "better" here

Reviewer 3: IMO the first `better` should go

`...described below can be controlled and fine tuned (or even disabled) to better suit the needs...`

### Fractures

Fractures are a new addition to the medical system. A direct hit to a limb has a chance to cause a fracture, a fractured limb will cause a person to be at a severe disadvantage. Leg fractures will cause a person to limp whereas arm fractures will lead to severe aiming shake.

The only way to treat a fracture is by using a splint. These are single use and anyone can apply one to themselves or others.

Fractures are shown as a bone overlay on their associated limb on the body image displays. The color of the bone describes the current state of the fracture:

- a red bone indicates an untreated fracture.

> - a blue bone indicates a treated fracture, but the patient is unable to sprint.

Reviewer 4: It's been a hot minute for me, is it correct that leg fractures mean you can never sprint again? Just because that's how this reads to me.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- a blue bone indicates a treated fracture (and may prevent the patient from sprinting depending on settings)
```

Lastly, fractures have a unique set of sounds that play when they occur and **induce severe amounts of pain**.

### Damage and Vitals

> Changes have been made to the way damage is handled, only direct hits to the torso or head are directly fatal. Wounds on limbs will induce bleeding and later cardiac arrest.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Changes have been made to the way damage is handled, only direct hits to the torso or head can be fatal if the incoming damage is high enough. All other wounds induce bleeding and later cardiac arrest.
```

Should we also mention the cumulative trauma system which can be fatal too?

Unconsciousness in now preceded by a ragdoll and unconsciousness effects have been reworked.

### Stitching and IVs

Stitching no longer requires the patient to be stable, instead, it can be performed whenever a patient has any stitchable wounds. A stitchable wound is a bandaged wound on a body part that does not have any bleeding wounds.

Self stitching can now be controlled through a setting (disabled by default).

Similarly, self IV transfusion can also be controlled though a setting (enabled by default). A setting to control the flow rate of IVs was added.

### Items

Atropine has been removed and will be replaced with adenosine if item conversion is not disabled through settings.

As mentioned previously, a splint item was added to serve as the treatment for fractures.

Equipment sharing has been properly implemented and is controllable through its setting. It can either be:

- enabled, and set to use the patient's equipment first.
- enabled, and set to use the medic's equipment first.
- or, disabled completely.

### Other Changes

Medical AI has received several healing logic improvements and should respond more consistently to different situations.

> It is faster to treat others than yourself, medics are also faster in performing treatments. Carrying animations have been sped up.

Reviewer 4: Does this only apply to bandaging or all treatments?
